docs/source/contrib_guide_code.rst, before:

==================================
Contributing to the Code
==================================

How can I help?
---------------
Individuals are welcome, and encouraged, to submit pull requests and contribute
to the Jupyter source. If you are a first-time contributor looking to get
involved with Jupyter, you can use the following query in a GitHub search to
find beginner-friendly issues to tackle across the Jupyter codebase.

**is:issue is:open is:sprint-friendly user:jupyter**

Once you've found an issue that you are eager to solve, you can use the guide
below to get started. If you experience any problems while working on the issue,
leave a comment on the issue page in GitHub and someone on the core team will
be able to lend you assistance.

1. Fork the repository associated with the issue you are addressing and clone
it to a local directory on your machine.

2. ``cd`` into the directory and create a new branch using ``git checkout -b
insert-branch-name-here``. Pick a branch name that gives some insight into
what the issue you are fixing is. For example, if you are updating the text
that is logged out by the program when a certain error happens you might 
name your branch `update-error-text`.

3. Reference the README of the repository you have forked and cloned for
information about how to set up the repository in development mode.

4. Identify the module or class where the code change you will make will
reside and leave a comment in the file describing what issue you are trying
to address.

5. Open a pull request to the repository with [WIP] appended to the front
so that the core team is aware that you are actively pursuing the issue.
When creating a pull request, make sure that the title clearly and concisely
described what your code does. For example, we might use the title "Updated
error message on ExampleException". In the body of the pull request, make sure 
that you include the phrase "Closes #issue-number-here", where the issue number is
the issue number of the issue that you are addressing in this PR.

6. Run the test suite locally in order to ensure that everything is properly
configured on your system. Refer to the repository's README for information
on how to run the test suite. This will typically require that you run the
``noetests`` 

4. Find the test file associated with the module that you will be changing. 
In the test file, add some tests that outline what you expect the behavior 
of the change should be. If we continue with our example of updating the 
text that is logged on error, we might write test cases that check to see 
if the exception raised when you induce the error contains the appropriate 
string. When writing test cases, make sure that you test for the following 
things.

* What is the simplest test case I can write for this issue?
* What will happen if your code is given messy inputs?
* What will happen if your code is given no inputs?
* What will happen if your code is given too few inputs?
* What will happen if your code is given too many inputs?
  
If you need assistance writing test cases, you can place a comment on the
pull request that was opened earlier and one of the core team members will
be able to help you.

6. Go back to the file that you are updating and begin adding the code for your
pull request.

7. Run the test suite again to see if your changes have caused any of the test
cases to pass. If any of the test cases have failed, go back to your code and 
make the updates necessary to have them pass.

8. Once all of your test cases have passed, commit both the test cases and the
updated module and push the updates to the branch on your forked repository.

10. Once you are ready for your pull request to be reviewed, remove the [WIP] tag 
from the front of isse, a project reviewer will review your code for quality. 
You can expect the reviewer to check for the documentation provided in the changes 
you made, how thorough the test cases you provided are, and how efficient your 
code is. Your reviewer will provide feedback on your code and you will 
have the chance to edit your code and apply fixes.

11. Once your PR is ready to become a part of the code base, it will be merged
by a member of the core team.

Contribution Workflow
----------------------
.. image:: http://i.imgur.com/J0Q5H7s.png

Commit message:

Added note on contributing to open source

docs/source/contrib_guide_code.rst, after:

==================================
Contributing to the Code
==================================
A Note on Contributing to Open Source
--------------------------------------
Contributing to open source can be a nerve-wrecking process, but don't worry
everyone on the Jupyter team is dedicated to making sure that your open source
experience is as fun as possibly. At any time during the process described below,
you can reach out to the Jupyter team on Gitter or the mailing list for
assistance. If you are nervous about asking questions in public, you can also
reach out to one of the Jupyter developers in private. You can use the public
Gitter to find someone who has the best knowledge about the code you are working
with and interact with the in a personal chat.

As you begin your open source journey, remember that it's OK if you don't
understand something, it's OK to make mistakes, and it's OK to only contribute
a small amount of the code necessary to fix the issue you are tackling. Any and
all help is welcome and any and all people are encouraged to contribute.

How can I help?
---------------
Individuals are welcome, and encouraged, to submit pull requests and contribute
to the Jupyter source. If you are a first-time contributor looking to get
involved with Jupyter, you can use the following query in a GitHub search to
find beginner-friendly issues to tackle across the Jupyter codebase.

**is:issue is:open is:sprint-friendly user:jupyter**

Once you've found an issue that you are eager to solve, you can use the guide
below to get started. If you experience any problems while working on the issue,
leave a comment on the issue page in GitHub and someone on the core team will
be able to lend you assistance.

1. Fork the repository associated with the issue you are addressing and clone
it to a local directory on your machine.

2. ``cd`` into the directory and create a new branch using ``git checkout -b
insert-branch-name-here``. Pick a branch name that gives some insight into
what the issue you are fixing is. For example, if you are updating the text
that is logged out by the program when a certain error happens you might 
name your branch `update-error-text`.

3. Reference the README of the repository you have forked and cloned for
information about how to set up the repository in development mode.

4. Identify the module or class where the code change you will make will
reside and leave a comment in the file describing what issue you are trying
to address.

5. Open a pull request to the repository with [WIP] appended to the front
so that the core team is aware that you are actively pursuing the issue.
When creating a pull request, make sure that the title clearly and concisely
described what your code does. For example, we might use the title "Updated
error message on ExampleException". In the body of the pull request, make sure 
that you include the phrase "Closes #issue-number-here", where the issue number is
the issue number of the issue that you are addressing in this PR.

6. Run the test suite locally in order to ensure that everything is properly
configured on your system. Refer to the repository's README for information
on how to run the test suite. This will typically require that you run the
``noetests`` 

4. Find the test file associated with the module that you will be changing. 
In the test file, add some tests that outline what you expect the behavior 
of the change should be. If we continue with our example of updating the 
text that is logged on error, we might write test cases that check to see 
if the exception raised when you induce the error contains the appropriate 
string. When writing test cases, make sure that you test for the following 
things.

* What is the simplest test case I can write for this issue?
* What will happen if your code is given messy inputs?
* What will happen if your code is given no inputs?
* What will happen if your code is given too few inputs?
* What will happen if your code is given too many inputs?
  
If you need assistance writing test cases, you can place a comment on the
pull request that was opened earlier and one of the core team members will
be able to help you.

6. Go back to the file that you are updating and begin adding the code for your
pull request.

7. Run the test suite again to see if your changes have caused any of the test
cases to pass. If any of the test cases have failed, go back to your code and 
make the updates necessary to have them pass.

8. Once all of your test cases have passed, commit both the test cases and the
updated module and push the updates to the branch on your forked repository.

10. Once you are ready for your pull request to be reviewed, remove the [WIP] tag 
from the front of isse, a project reviewer will review your code for quality. 
You can expect the reviewer to check for the documentation provided in the changes 
you made, how thorough the test cases you provided are, and how efficient your 
code is. Your reviewer will provide feedback on your code and you will 
have the chance to edit your code and apply fixes.

11. Once your PR is ready to become a part of the code base, it will be merged
by a member of the core team.

Contribution Workflow
----------------------
.. image:: http://i.imgur.com/J0Q5H7s.png
