docs/source/contrib_guide_bugs_enh.rst, before:

=================
Submitting a Bug
=================
While using the Notebook, you might experience a bug that manifests itself in 
unexpected behavior.  If so, we encourage you  to open issues on GitHub. To 
make the navigating issues easier for both developers and users, we ask that
you take the following steps before submitting an issue.

1. Search through StackOverflow and existing GitHub issues to ensure that 
the issue has not already been reported by another user. If so, provide
your input on the existing issue if you think it would be valuable.

2. Prepare a small, self-contained snippet of code that will allow others
to reproduce the issue that you are experiencing.

3. Prepare information about the environment that you are executing the code
in, in order to aid in the debugging of the issue. You can use ``python 
-c "import IPython; print(IPython.sys_info())"`` to get some initial
information about the environment. You can also use ``pip list`` or 
``conda list`` and ``grep`` in order to identify the versions of the
libraries that are relevant to the issue that you are submitting.

4. Prepare a simple test that outlines the expected behavior of the code
or a description of the what the expected behavior should be.

5. Prepare an explanation of why the current behavior is not desired and 
what it should be.

==================================
Submitting an Enhancement Proposal
==================================
While using the Notebook, you might discover opportunities for growth and ideas
for useful new features. If so, feel free to submit an enhancement proposal. 
The process for submitting enhancements is as follows:

1. Identify the scope of the enhancement. Is it a change that affects only on
part of the codebase? Is the enhancement, to the best of your knowledge, fairly
trivial to implement? If the scope of the enhancement is small, it should be 
be submitted as an issue in the project's repository. If the scope of your
enhancement is large, it should be submitted to the official `Jupyter 
Enhancement Proposals repository <https://GitHub.com/jupyter/enhancement-proposals>`_.

2. Prepare a brief write-up of the problem that your enhancement will address.

3. Prepare a brief write-up of the proposed enhancement itself.

4. If the scope of your enhancement (as defined in step 1) is large, then 
prepare a detailed write-up of how your enhancement can be potentially implemented.

5. Identify a brief list of the pros and cons associated with implementing the
enhancement that you propose.

6. Identify the individuals who might be interested in implementing the enhancement.

7. Depending on the scope of your enhancement, submit it either as an issue to 
the appropriate repository or as a Jupyter Enhancement Proposal.

Commit message:

Updated section about providing info for debugging

docs/source/contrib_guide_bugs_enh.rst, after:

=================
Submitting a Bug
=================
While using the Notebook, you might experience a bug that manifests itself in 
unexpected behavior.  If so, we encourage you  to open issues on GitHub. To 
make the navigating issues easier for both developers and users, we ask that
you take the following steps before submitting an issue.

1. Search through StackOverflow and existing GitHub issues to ensure that 
the issue has not already been reported by another user. If so, provide
your input on the existing issue if you think it would be valuable.

2. Prepare a small, self-contained snippet of code that will allow others
to reproduce the issue that you are experiencing.

3. Prepare information about the environment that you are executing the code
in, in order to aid in the debugging of the issue. You will need to provide
information about the Python version, Jupyter version, operating system,
and browser that you are using when submitting bugs. You can also use 
``pip list`` or  ``conda list`` and ``grep`` in order to identify the 
versions of the libraries that are relevant to the issue that you are
submitting.

4. Prepare a simple test that outlines the expected behavior of the code
or a description of the what the expected behavior should be.

5. Prepare an explanation of why the current behavior is not desired and 
what it should be.

==================================
Submitting an Enhancement Proposal
==================================
While using the Notebook, you might discover opportunities for growth and ideas
for useful new features. If so, feel free to submit an enhancement proposal. 
The process for submitting enhancements is as follows:

1. Identify the scope of the enhancement. Is it a change that affects only on
part of the codebase? Is the enhancement, to the best of your knowledge, fairly
trivial to implement? If the scope of the enhancement is small, it should be 
be submitted as an issue in the project's repository. If the scope of your
enhancement is large, it should be submitted to the official `Jupyter 
Enhancement Proposals repository <https://GitHub.com/jupyter/enhancement-proposals>`_.

2. Prepare a brief write-up of the problem that your enhancement will address.

3. Prepare a brief write-up of the proposed enhancement itself.

4. If the scope of your enhancement (as defined in step 1) is large, then 
prepare a detailed write-up of how your enhancement can be potentially implemented.

5. Identify a brief list of the pros and cons associated with implementing the
enhancement that you propose.

6. Identify the individuals who might be interested in implementing the enhancement.

7. Depending on the scope of your enhancement, submit it either as an issue to 
the appropriate repository or as a Jupyter Enhancement Proposal.
