docs/source/index.rst, before:

.. _landing:


===========================
Project Jupyter and IPython
===========================

Welcome to **Project Jupyter and IPython** "official" documentation landing
page. From this page, you may access all "official" documentation for Project
Jupyter and IPython projects.

**What is Project Jupyter?** Project Jupyter was born out of the IPython
Project in 2014 as the project evolved to support interactive data science
and scientific computing across all programming languages. The popular
**Jupyter Notebook** (formerly IPython notebook) is a cornerstone of the project.
Using the Jupyter Notebook, you can author engaging documents that combine
live-code with narrative text, equations, images, video,
and visualizations. By encoding a complete and reproducible record of a
computation, the documents can be shared with others on GitHub, Dropbox, and
the `Jupyter Notebook Viewer <https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/>`__.

.. _user-docs:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Jupyter Notebook Quickstart

    tryjupyter
    install
    running
    migrating

.. _jupyter-subprojects:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Projects

   subprojects
   incubator
   kernels
   jupyter_enhancement_proposals

    ,, toctree::
       :maxdepth: 1
       :caption: Technical overview

       visual_projects
       system
       config

.. _about-docs:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: User Stories

   data_science
   science
   education
   hpc

   User stories and use cases will be added in this section.

.. _dev-docs:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Contributor Documentation

   contrib_guide_welcome
   contrib_guide_code
   contrib_guide_bugs_enh
   contrib_guide_docs
   contrib_guide_site
   contrib_guide_blog
   contrib_guide_newsletter

   The contributor guide will be reorganized.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Old IPython Wiki

   development_guide/index


Links to project documentation
------------------------------

This section will provide names and links to each individual project.

Links to support and help
-------------------------

This section will provide a link to the Help repo, mailing list/google group,
NumFocus donations, Jupyter website, IPython website.

Commit message:

Modify index and add an IPython projects doc

docs/source/index.rst, after:

.. _landing:


===========================
Project Jupyter and IPython
===========================

Welcome to the **Project Jupyter and IPython** "official" documentation
landing page where you may access all documentation for all
Project Jupyter and IPython projects.

**What is Project Jupyter?** Project Jupyter was born out of the IPython
Project in 2014 as the project evolved to support interactive data science
and scientific computing across all programming languages.

The popular **Jupyter Notebook** (formerly IPython notebook) provides a
web-based application for authoring engaging documents combining live-code
with narrative text, equations, images, video, and visualizations. By
encoding a complete and reproducible record of a computation, the documents
can be shared with others on GitHub, Dropbox, and
the `Jupyter Notebook Viewer <https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/>`__.

.. _user-docs:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Jupyter Notebook Quickstart

    tryjupyter
    install
    running
    migrating

.. _jupyter-subprojects:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Projects

   subprojects
   ipython_projects
   incubator
   kernels
   jupyter_enhancement_proposals

,, toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Technical overview

   visual_projects
   system
   config

.. _about-docs:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: User Stories

   data_science
   science
   education
   hpc

   User stories and use cases will be added in this section.

.. _dev-docs:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Contributor Documentation

   contrib_guide_welcome
   contrib_guide_code
   contrib_guide_bugs_enh
   contrib_guide_docs
   contrib_guide_site
   contrib_guide_blog
   contrib_guide_newsletter

   The contributor guide will be reorganized.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Old IPython Wiki

   development_guide/index


Links to project documentation
------------------------------

This section will provide names and links to each individual project.

Links to support and help
-------------------------

This section will provide a link to the Help repo, mailing list/google group,
NumFocus donations, Jupyter website, IPython website.
