docs/source/install.rst, before:

.. _install:

============
Installation
============

This section explains how to install the Jupyter Notebook and the IPython
kernel.

While Jupyter runs code in many different programming languages, Python is a
prerequisite for installing Jupyter notebook. Select one of the scenarios to
install Jupyter:

    - :ref:`Installing Jupyter and Python <new-to-python-and-jupyter>`
    - :ref:`Installing Jupyter (I already have Python) <existing-python-new-jupyter>`
    - :ref:`Upgrading a Jupyter installation <upgrading>`

.. note::

     All installation commands should be run in the Terminal (for Mac and Linux)
     or the Command Prompt (Windows).

.. _new-to-python-and-jupyter:

Installing Jupyter and Python
-----------------------------

For new users, we **highly recommend** `installing Anaconda
<https://www.continuum.io/downloads>`_. Anaconda conveniently
installs Python, the Jupyter Notebook, and other commonly used packages for
scientific computing and data science. Follow Anaconda's instructions for
downloading and installing the Python 3.5 version.

See :ref:`next steps <next-steps>` for running the Jupyter Notebook and
:ref:`installing additional kernels <installing-kernels>` to use programming
languages other than Python.

.. _existing-python-new-jupyter:

Installing Jupyter (I already have Python)
------------------------------------------

.. important::

    **Prerequisite: Jupyter installation requires Python 3.3 or greater, or Python 2.7.**
    Older releases of IPython are available
    `here <http://archive.ipython.org/release/>`__.

As an existing Python user, you may have installed Python from the Python website,
a system package manager, or using Anaconda. The command for installing Jupyter
Notebook is slightly different depending on how you installed Python. Depending
on whether you use Anaconda or pip, select the relevant instructions
below to install Jupyter on your system.


.. _existing-anaconda-new-jupyter:

Using Anaconda and conda
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If Anaconda is installed, run the following command in the Terminal
(Mac/Linux) or CommandPrompt (Windows) to install Jupyter::

    conda install jupyter

See :ref:`next steps <next-steps>` for running the Jupyter Notebook and
:ref:`installing additional kernels <installing-kernels>` to use programming
languages other than Python.


.. _python-using-pip:

Using pip
^^^^^^^^^

If you already have Python installed and are **not** using conda or Anaconda,
you may install the Jupyter Notebook using Python's package manager, pip::

    pip3 install jupyter

(Use ``pip`` instead of ``pip3`` for legacy Python 2.)

.. note::

    Some of Jupyter's dependencies may require compilation,
    in which case you would need the ability to compile Python C-extensions.
    This means a C compiler and the Python headers.
    On Debian-based systems (e.g. Ubuntu), you can get this with::

        apt-get install build-essential python3-dev

    And on Fedora-based systems (e.g. Red Hat, CentOS)::

        yum groupinstall 'Development Tools'
        yum install python3-devel

    (Use ``python`` instead of ``python3`` for legacy Python 2.)

See :ref:`next steps <next-steps>` for running the Jupyter Notebook and
:ref:`installing additional kernels <installing-kernels>` to use programming
languages other than Python.

.. _upgrading:

Upgrading a Jupyter installation
--------------------------------

The Jupyter Notebook used to be called the IPython Notebook. If you are running
an older version of the IPython Notebook (version 3 or earlier) you can use the
following to upgrade to the latest version of the Jupyter Notebook.

**If using pip**::

    pip install -U jupyter

OR

**If using Anaconda**::

    conda update jupyter

.. seealso::

    The :ref:`Migrating from IPython <migrating>` document has additional
    information about migrating from IPython 3 to Jupyter.


.. _installing-kernels:

Installing kernels
------------------

Installing the Jupyter Notebook as described above will also install the `IPython
kernel <https://ipython.readthedocs.org/en/master/>`_ which allows working on
notebooks using the Python programming language.

To run notebooks in languages other than Python, you will need to install
additional kernels. For more information, see the full `list of available kernels
<https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPython-kernels-for-other-languages>`_.


.. _next-steps:

Next steps
----------

Congratulations. You have installed Jupyter Notebook and are ready to
:ref:`run the notebook <running>`.


.. seealso::

    For detailed installation instructions for individual Jupyter or IPython
    subprojects, see the :ref:`Jupyter Subprojects <subprojects>`
    document.

Commit message:

Point to IPython docs on installing extra Python kernels
I think this is a common enough requirement to mention here.

docs/source/install.rst, after:

.. _install:

============
Installation
============

This section explains how to install the Jupyter Notebook and the IPython
kernel.

While Jupyter runs code in many different programming languages, Python is a
prerequisite for installing Jupyter notebook. Select one of the scenarios to
install Jupyter:

    - :ref:`Installing Jupyter and Python <new-to-python-and-jupyter>`
    - :ref:`Installing Jupyter (I already have Python) <existing-python-new-jupyter>`
    - :ref:`Upgrading a Jupyter installation <upgrading>`

.. note::

     All installation commands should be run in the Terminal (for Mac and Linux)
     or the Command Prompt (Windows).

.. _new-to-python-and-jupyter:

Installing Jupyter and Python
-----------------------------

For new users, we **highly recommend** `installing Anaconda
<https://www.continuum.io/downloads>`_. Anaconda conveniently
installs Python, the Jupyter Notebook, and other commonly used packages for
scientific computing and data science. Follow Anaconda's instructions for
downloading and installing the Python 3.5 version.

See :ref:`next steps <next-steps>` for running the Jupyter Notebook and
:ref:`installing additional kernels <installing-kernels>` to use programming
languages other than Python.

.. _existing-python-new-jupyter:

Installing Jupyter (I already have Python)
------------------------------------------

.. important::

    **Prerequisite: Jupyter installation requires Python 3.3 or greater, or Python 2.7.**
    Older releases of IPython are available
    `here <http://archive.ipython.org/release/>`__.

As an existing Python user, you may have installed Python from the Python website,
a system package manager, or using Anaconda. The command for installing Jupyter
Notebook is slightly different depending on how you installed Python. Depending
on whether you use Anaconda or pip, select the relevant instructions
below to install Jupyter on your system.


.. _existing-anaconda-new-jupyter:

Using Anaconda and conda
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If Anaconda is installed, run the following command in the Terminal
(Mac/Linux) or CommandPrompt (Windows) to install Jupyter::

    conda install jupyter

See :ref:`next steps <next-steps>` for running the Jupyter Notebook and
:ref:`installing additional kernels <installing-kernels>` to use programming
languages other than Python.


.. _python-using-pip:

Using pip
^^^^^^^^^

If you already have Python installed and are **not** using conda or Anaconda,
you may install the Jupyter Notebook using Python's package manager, pip::

    pip3 install jupyter

(Use ``pip`` instead of ``pip3`` for legacy Python 2.)

.. note::

    Some of Jupyter's dependencies may require compilation,
    in which case you would need the ability to compile Python C-extensions.
    This means a C compiler and the Python headers.
    On Debian-based systems (e.g. Ubuntu), you can get this with::

        apt-get install build-essential python3-dev

    And on Fedora-based systems (e.g. Red Hat, CentOS)::

        yum groupinstall 'Development Tools'
        yum install python3-devel

    (Use ``python`` instead of ``python3`` for legacy Python 2.)

See :ref:`next steps <next-steps>` for running the Jupyter Notebook and
:ref:`installing additional kernels <installing-kernels>` to use programming
languages other than Python.

.. _upgrading:

Upgrading a Jupyter installation
--------------------------------

The Jupyter Notebook used to be called the IPython Notebook. If you are running
an older version of the IPython Notebook (version 3 or earlier) you can use the
following to upgrade to the latest version of the Jupyter Notebook.

**If using pip**::

    pip install -U jupyter

OR

**If using Anaconda**::

    conda update jupyter

.. seealso::

    The :ref:`Migrating from IPython <migrating>` document has additional
    information about migrating from IPython 3 to Jupyter.


.. _installing-kernels:

Installing kernels
------------------

Installing the Jupyter Notebook as described above will also install the `IPython
kernel <https://ipython.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`_ which allows working on
notebooks using the Python programming language.

To run notebooks in languages other than Python, you will need to install
additional kernels. For more information, see the full `list of available kernels
<https://github.com/ipython/ipython/wiki/IPython-kernels-for-other-languages>`_.

To install extra Python kernels—to make both Python 2 and 3 available in
Jupyter, or to set up kernels in environments—see `the IPython docs on
installing kernels <https://ipython.readthedocs.org/en/latest/install/kernel_install.html>`__.


.. _next-steps:

Next steps
----------

Congratulations. You have installed Jupyter Notebook and are ready to
:ref:`run the notebook <running>`.


.. seealso::

    For detailed installation instructions for individual Jupyter or IPython
    subprojects, see the :ref:`Jupyter Subprojects <subprojects>`
    document.
