docs/source/projects/incubator.rst, before:

==================
Incubator Projects
==================

.. contents:: Contents
   :local:

The `Jupyter incubator <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator>`_
gives emerging projects a place to evolve.

Descriptions
------------

Interesting projects include:

* `content management extensions <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/contentmanagement>`_ - Jupyter Content Management Extensions
* `dashboards <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/dashboards>`_ - Jupyter Dynamic Dashboards from Notebooks
* `declarative widgets <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/declarativewidgets>`_ - Jupyter Declarative Widgets Extension
* `kernel gateway bundlers <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/kernel_gateway_bundlers>`_ - Converts a notebook to a kernel gateway microservice bundle for download
* `showcase`_ - A spot to try demos of one or more incubating Jupyter projects in `Binder <http://mybinder.org/>`_
* `sparkmagic <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/sparkmagic>`_ - Jupyter magics and kernels for working with remote Spark clusters
* `traittypes <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/traittypes>`_ - Traitlets types for NumPy, SciPy and friends

There's also a `repository with proposals <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/proposals>`_
of projects wishing to enter the incubator.

Try the Incubator Projects
--------------------------

The `showcase`_ application allows you to try demos of one or more incubating
Jupyter projects in `Binder <http://mybinder.org/>`_. Just head over to the
`showcase`_ repo and press the :guilabel:`Launch Binder` button badge to launch
the online trial. You should see an interactive notebook similar to this one:

.. image:: ../_static/_images/showcase.png
   :alt: 

.. _showcase: https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/showcase

Commit message:

Add sprint alt text
Co-authored-by: elichad <eli.chadwick.256@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: MarsBarLee <46167686+MarsBarLee@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Annette Greiner <amgreiner@lbl.gov>
Co-authored-by: Peyton Murray <peynmurray@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: R Ely <rebaely@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Maria Jose Molina Contreras <32220621+mjmolina@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: franzenr <87659159+franzenr@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: gabalafou <gabriel@fouasnon.com>
Co-authored-by: Tania Allard <taniar.allard@gmail.com>

docs/source/projects/incubator.rst, after:

==================
Incubator Projects
==================

.. contents:: Contents
   :local:

The `Jupyter incubator <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator>`_
gives emerging projects a place to evolve.

Descriptions
------------

Interesting projects include:

* `content management extensions <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/contentmanagement>`_ - Jupyter Content Management Extensions
* `dashboards <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/dashboards>`_ - Jupyter Dynamic Dashboards from Notebooks
* `declarative widgets <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/declarativewidgets>`_ - Jupyter Declarative Widgets Extension
* `kernel gateway bundlers <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/kernel_gateway_bundlers>`_ - Converts a notebook to a kernel gateway microservice bundle for download
* `showcase`_ - A spot to try demos of one or more incubating Jupyter projects in `Binder <http://mybinder.org/>`_
* `sparkmagic <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/sparkmagic>`_ - Jupyter magics and kernels for working with remote Spark clusters
* `traittypes <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/traittypes>`_ - Traitlets types for NumPy, SciPy and friends

There's also a `repository with proposals <https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/proposals>`_
of projects wishing to enter the incubator.

Try the Incubator Projects
--------------------------

The `showcase`_ application allows you to try demos of one or more incubating
Jupyter projects in `Binder <http://mybinder.org/>`_. Just head over to the
`showcase`_ repo and press the :guilabel:`Launch Binder` button badge to launch
the online trial. You should see an interactive notebook similar to this one:

.. image:: ../_static/_images/showcase.png
   :alt: Screenshot of the online trial Jupyter notebook. It begins with a text cell stating that this is a temporary notebook server that acts as a sandbox. It then lists the different incubator projects that are available on the server, with links to demos, documentation and GitHub repo for each.

.. _showcase: https://github.com/jupyter-incubator/showcase
