docs/source/projects/jupyter-directories.rst, before:

.. _jupyter_directories:

Common Directories and File Locations
=====================================

.. contents:: Contents
   :local:

Jupyter stores different files (i.e. configuration, data, runtime) in a
number of different locations. Environment variables may be set to
customize for the location of each file type.

.. _config_dir:

Configuration files
-------------------

Config files are stored by default in the :file:`~/.jupyter` directory.

.. envvar:: JUPYTER_CONFIG_DIR

   Set this environment variable to use a particular directory, other than the
   default, for Jupyter config files.

Besides the user config directory mentioned above, Jupyter has a search
path of additional locations from which a config file will be loaded. Here's a
table of the locations to be searched, in order of preference:

+------------------------------+----------------------------+
| Unix                         | Windows                    |
+==============================+============================+
|                 :envvar:`JUPYTER_CONFIG_DIR`              |
+------------------------------+----------------------------+
|                ``{sys.prefix}/etc/jupyter/``              |
+------------------------------+----------------------------+
| ``/usr/local/etc/jupyter/``  | ``%PROGRAMDATA%\jupyter\`` |
| ``/etc/jupyter/``            |                            |
+------------------------------+----------------------------+

.. _jupyter_path:

Data files
----------

Jupyter uses a search path to find installable data files, such as
:ref:`kernelspecs <kernelspecs>` and notebook extensions. When searching for
a resource, the code will search the search path starting at the first
directory until it finds where the resource is contained.

Each category of file is in a subdirectory of each directory of the
search path. For example, kernel specs are in ``kernels`` subdirectories.

.. envvar:: JUPYTER_PATH

   Set this environment variable to provide extra directories for the data
   search path. :envvar:`JUPYTER_PATH` should contain a series of directories,
   separated by ``os.pathsep`` (``;`` on Windows, ``:`` on Unix).
   Directories given in :envvar:`JUPYTER_PATH` are searched before other
   locations.

+-------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
| Linux (& other free desktops) | Mac                        | Windows                    |
+===============================+============================+============================+
| :envvar:`JUPYTER_PATH`                                                                  |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
| ``~/.local/share/jupyter/``   | ``~/Library/Jupyter``      | ``%APPDATA%\jupyter``      |
| (respects ``$XDG_DATA_HOME``) |                            |                            |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
| ``{sys.prefix}/share/jupyter/``                                                         |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
| ``/usr/local/share/jupyter``                               | ``%PROGRAMDATA\jupyter``   |
| ``/usr/share/jupyter``                                     |                            |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------+

.. _jupyter_runtime_dir:

Runtime files
-------------

Things like connection files, which are only useful for the lifetime of a
particular process, have a runtime directory.

On Linux and other free desktop platforms, these runtime files are stored in
``$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/jupyter`` by default. On other platforms, it's a
``runtime/`` subdirectory of the user's data directory (second row of the
table above).

An environment variable may also be used to set the runtime directory.

.. envvar:: JUPYTER_RUNTIME_DIR

   Set this to override where Jupyter stores runtime files.

Summary
-------

:envvar:`JUPYTER_CONFIG_DIR` for config file location

:envvar:`JUPYTER_PATH` for datafile directory locations

:envvar:`JUPYTER_RUNTIME_DIR` for runtime file location


.. seealso::

   :mod:`jupyter_core.paths`
       The Python API to locate these directories.

   :ref:`jupyter_command`
       Locate these directories from the command line.

Commit message:

Add info regarding config dirs
Mention the existence of the `jupyter --paths` command

docs/source/projects/jupyter-directories.rst, after:

.. _jupyter_directories:

Common Directories and File Locations
=====================================

.. contents:: Contents
   :local:

Jupyter stores different files (i.e. configuration, data, runtime) in a
number of different locations. Environment variables may be set to
customize for the location of each file type.

.. _config_dir:

Configuration files
-------------------

Config files are stored by default in the :file:`~/.jupyter` directory.

.. envvar:: JUPYTER_CONFIG_DIR

   Set this environment variable to use a particular directory, other than the
   default, for Jupyter config files.

Besides the user config directory mentioned above, Jupyter has a search
path of additional locations from which a config file will be loaded. Here's a
table of the locations to be searched, in order of preference:

+------------------------------+----------------------------+
| Unix                         | Windows                    |
+==============================+============================+
|                 :envvar:`JUPYTER_CONFIG_DIR`              |
+------------------------------+----------------------------+
|                ``{sys.prefix}/etc/jupyter/``              |
+------------------------------+----------------------------+
| ``/usr/local/etc/jupyter/``  | ``%PROGRAMDATA%\jupyter\`` |
| ``/etc/jupyter/``            |                            |
+------------------------------+----------------------------+

To list the config directories currrently being used you can run the below command from the :term:`command line`::

    jupyter --paths


.. _jupyter_path:

Data files
----------

Jupyter uses a search path to find installable data files, such as
:ref:`kernelspecs <kernelspecs>` and notebook extensions. When searching for
a resource, the code will search the search path starting at the first
directory until it finds where the resource is contained.

Each category of file is in a subdirectory of each directory of the
search path. For example, kernel specs are in ``kernels`` subdirectories.

.. envvar:: JUPYTER_PATH

   Set this environment variable to provide extra directories for the data
   search path. :envvar:`JUPYTER_PATH` should contain a series of directories,
   separated by ``os.pathsep`` (``;`` on Windows, ``:`` on Unix).
   Directories given in :envvar:`JUPYTER_PATH` are searched before other
   locations.

+-------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
| Linux (& other free desktops) | Mac                        | Windows                    |
+===============================+============================+============================+
| :envvar:`JUPYTER_PATH`                                                                  |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
| ``~/.local/share/jupyter/``   | ``~/Library/Jupyter``      | ``%APPDATA%\jupyter``      |
| (respects ``$XDG_DATA_HOME``) |                            |                            |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
| ``{sys.prefix}/share/jupyter/``                                                         |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------+
| ``/usr/local/share/jupyter``                               | ``%PROGRAMDATA\jupyter``   |
| ``/usr/share/jupyter``                                     |                            |
+-------------------------------+----------------------------+----------------------------+

.. _jupyter_runtime_dir:

Runtime files
-------------

Things like connection files, which are only useful for the lifetime of a
particular process, have a runtime directory.

On Linux and other free desktop platforms, these runtime files are stored in
``$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/jupyter`` by default. On other platforms, it's a
``runtime/`` subdirectory of the user's data directory (second row of the
table above).

An environment variable may also be used to set the runtime directory.

.. envvar:: JUPYTER_RUNTIME_DIR

   Set this to override where Jupyter stores runtime files.

Summary
-------

:envvar:`JUPYTER_CONFIG_DIR` for config file location

:envvar:`JUPYTER_PATH` for datafile directory locations

:envvar:`JUPYTER_RUNTIME_DIR` for runtime file location


.. seealso::

   :mod:`jupyter_core.paths`
       The Python API to locate these directories.

   :ref:`jupyter_command`
       Locate these directories from the command line.
