[main-po--master]
host = https://www.transifex.com

[jupyter-meta-documentation.contrib_docs-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/contrib_docs.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/contrib_docs.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.releases-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/releases.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/releases.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.ipython-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/ipython.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/ipython.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.community-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/community.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/community.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.install-kernel-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/install-kernel.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/install-kernel.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.developer-docs-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/developer-docs.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/developer-docs.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.contributor-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/contributor.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/contributor.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.architecture-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/architecture.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/architecture.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.reference-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/reference.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/reference.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.install-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/install.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/install.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.projects-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/projects.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/projects.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.running-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/running.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/running.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.glossary-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/glossary.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/glossary.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.sphinx-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/sphinx.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/sphinx.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.content-quickstart-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/content-quickstart.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/content-quickstart.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.contents-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/contents.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/contents.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.tryjupyter-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/tryjupyter.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/tryjupyter.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.use-cases-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/use-cases.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/use-cases.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.development_guide-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/development_guide.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/development_guide.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

[jupyter-meta-documentation.migrating-po--master]
file_filter = source/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/migrating.po
source_file = source/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/migrating.po
source_lang = en
type = PO

